## Understand Color Application Behavior

##### Authentication & Authorization
Since this is a local deployment, the apps are reachable at their `host:port` address.
However, the intention is that, in a production environment, you would expose only the Auth Gateway publically, 
and the rest of the apps would only be reachable internally.

The Auth Gateway uses Spring Cloud Security to apply a security filter, redirecting the user to a login page if the user has not yet been authenticated.
Typically, the Auth Gateway would be integrated with an Identity Management system. However, to keep things simple in this demo app, credentials for two users (`user/pw` and `premium/pw`) are hard-coded in the Auth Gateway.
Once a user has successfully authenticated, the Auth Gateway enriches the request headers with authorization information (aka `premium` or `nonpremium`) and forwards requests to the `blueorgreengateway`. The `blueorgreengateway` then routes requests to the remaining applications.

##### Circuit Breaker And Fallback Configuration
The `blueorgreengateway` will wait about one second for a color service instance to return.
If it does not receive a response, it times out and resorts to a fallback action, which returns a hard-coded value of `red`.

Take a look at the code that defines this behavior.
```editor:select-matching-text
file: ~/color-app/blueorgreengateway/src/main/java/org/springframework/demo/blueorgreengateway/BlueorgreengatewayApplication.java
text: .filters(this::circuitBreaker)
```

Look down the page to see the `circuitBreaker` method that configures the fallback, and even further down to see the `fallbackColor` method that returns `red`.

