# Lift & Shift the Color Application to Kubernetes - Step 3

In the local deployment, all apps connect to Eureka at `localhost:8761`.
In addition, all apps register their direct address (IP:port) in Eureka, so that the gateways can communicate with them.

This will not work on Kubernetes. 
Instead, all inter-app communication must go through the service resources.
This means that each app must connect to Eureka through the `eureka` service, and that each app must register its on endpoint in Eureka using its own service name (e.g. the blue app must register itself using `blue`).

## Configure Eureka lookup

The hard-coding of Eureka's address as `localhost:8761` can be found in each application's `application.properties` file. 
Take a look, for example, at the bluegreenservice properties file.
```editor:select-matching-text
file: ~/color-app/blueorgreenservice/src/main/resources/application.yml
text: defaultZone: http://localhost:8761/eureka/
```

To ensure that local deployments still work smoothly, you can parameterize this value and set `localhost:8761` as the default value.

Update the address of the Eureka server in each application.properties file.
```execute-1
for i in */src/main/resources/application.yml; do \
    yq eval \
        '.eureka.client.serviceUrl.defaultZone = "http://${EUREKA_HOST:-localhost}:8761/eureka/"' \
        -i $i; \
done
```

For the Kubernetes deployment, `EUREKA_HOST` must be the name of the eureka service.
You can look up this value in the `eureka-service.yaml`.
```editor:select-matching-text
file: ~/color-app/k8s/lift-and-shift/eureka-service.yaml
text: name: eureka
```

Finally, add the `EUREKA_HOST` environment variable to each deployment manifest and set the value appropriately.
```execute-1
for i in k8s/lift-and-shift/*-deployment.yaml; do \
    yq eval \
        '.spec.template.spec.containers[0].env[0].key = "EUREKA_HOST"' \
        -i $i; \
    yq eval \
        '.spec.template.spec.containers[0].env[0].value = "eureka"' \
        -i $i; \
done
```

## Configure Eureka registration

The Auth Gateway and the Routing Gateway also need to connect to the Color Application apps. 
They should do so using the K8s services, so you need to make sure each app registers itself in Eureka using its service name, not localhost or an IP address. 
This way, when the gateways retrieve the instance address from Eureka, they will get the service name.

Once again, as you make this change, parameterize the property in the application properties file and set the default value to preserve back-compatibility with local deployments.

Update the `application.yml` files.
```execute-1
for i in */src/main/resources/application.yml; do \
    yq eval \
        '.eureka.instance.hostname = "${INSTANCE_HOST:-localhost}"' \
        -i $i; \
done
```

Set the env var in each deployment manifest.
```execute-1
cd k8s 

for i in *-deployment.yaml; do \

    # Get the prefix of each filename since this matches the service name
    value=${i%-deployment.yaml}

    yq eval \
        '.spec.template.spec.containers[0].env[1].key = "INSTANCE_HOST"' \
        -i $i; \

    yq eval \
        ".spec.template.spec.containers[0].env[1].value = \"$value\"" \
        -i $i; \
done

cd ..
```
