# Refactor the Color Application for Kubernetes using Servie Mesh - Step 1

In the next set of exercises, you will refactor the Color Application in order to leverage native Kubernetes functionality. 
You will be leveraging a service mesh, in this case Istio, to replace some of the application functionality.

## Install Istio

Start by setting a couple of environment variables to facilitate some of the instructions you will be running.
```execute-1
export BG_NS=blueorgreen-istio
export INGRESS_DOMAIN=blueorgreen.springone.coraiberkleid.xyz
```

Download the Istio release file and add the `istioctl` CLI to your PATH.
```execute-1
ISTIO_VERSION=1.9.2
curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | ISTIO_VERSION=$ISTIO_VERSION TARGET_ARCH=x86_64 sh -
cd istio-$ISTIO_VERSION
export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH
```

Install Istio using the `demo` profile which configures sensible defaults for testing.
```execute-1
istioctl install --set profile=demo -y
```

Create the namespace to deploy the Color Application and add a label to it to instruct Istio to automatically inject Envoy sidecar proxies to any apps deployed to this namespace.
```execute-1
kubectl create ns $BG_NS
kubectl label namespace $BG_NS istio-injection=enabled
```

## Configure 


## Sandbox

# Install bluegreen demo

# Deploy the app...
kubectl -n $BG_NS apply -f yaml/istio/
# Ensure that there are no issues with the configuration
istioctl analyze -n $BG_NS


# Get Istio Ingress Host
echo "istio-ingressgateway hostname:"
kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].hostname}'

# More:
https://istio.io/latest/docs/setup/getting-started/#download









The original flow for a given request is:

End User (first request) --> Auth Gateway* --> Routing Gateway* --> Frontend
End User (subsequent requests) --> Auth Gateway* --> Routing Gateway* --> Color Service

where each * represents a Eureka lookup.

The new flow for a given request will be:

End User (first request) --> Auth Gateway --> Frontend
End User (subsequent requests) --> Auth Gateway --> Color Service

## Service discovery & load balancing

In Kubernetes, each Pod is fronted by a Service resource. 
You already created a Service for each app in the previous exercise. 
List them using the following command.
```execute-1
kubectl get services
```

Any app that wishes to send requests to a given Pod can simply send the request to the Service. 
The Service will load balance all requests across the instances of the corresponding Pod. 

In other words, by using the Kubernetes service directly, you no longer need to use Eureka or Ribbon (Ribbon is the client-side library that load balances requests across the endpoints retrieved from Eureka) to locate the Pod instances and load balance requests across them.

## Eureka & Ribbon configuration

You can eliminate Eureka altogether by simply not deploying the `eureka` app.

However, merely doing that will cause errors in the remaining applications, since each app will currently try to register itself iwth Eureka and retrieve the existing registry. 
Therefore, you need to disable Eureka registration & fetch in each app. 

In addition, the Auth Gateway and Frontend apps act as clients, sending requests to other apps. 
This means they use the Ribbon library in conjunction with Eureka. 
For these two apps, you also need to disable intagration with Eureka. 
Instead, you can enable HTTP support.

You can add all of these configuration parameters into a new istio-specific application config file for each app.
Start by adding a new and empty configuration file to each app.
```execute-1
touch ~/color-app/authgateway/src/main/resources/application-istio.yml
touch ~/color-app/blueorgreenfrontend/src/main/resources/application-istio.yml
touch ~/color-app/blueorgreenservice/src/main/resources/application-istio.yml
```

For Auth Gateway and Frontend, disable Eureka and enable HTTP support for Ribbon.
```editor:insert-lines-before-line
file: ~/color-app/authgateway/src/main/resources/application-istio.yml
line: 1
text: |
    Eureka.client:
      register-with-eureka: false
      fetch-registry: false
      enabled: false

    Ribbon: 
      eureka.enabled: false 
      http.client.enabled: true 

```

For the Frontend, it is also necessary to set Read and Connect timeout settings (** WHY???? **)
```editor:insert-lines-before-line
file: ~/color-app/blueorgreenfrontend/src/main/resources/application-istio.yml
line: 1
text: |
    Eureka.client:
      register-with-eureka: false
      fetch-registry: false
      enabled: false

    Ribbon: 
      eureka.enabled: false 
      http.client.enabled: true 

    ReadTimeout: 10000
    ConnectTimeout: 7000

```

For the color app, you only need to disable Eureka registration and fetch, since this app is not a client to any other and will not send any requests.
```editor:insert-lines-before-line
file: ~/color-app/blueorgreenservice/src/main/resources/application-istio.yml
line: 1
text: |
    Eureka.client:
      register-with-eureka: false
      fetch-registry: false

```

## Route to K8s Service names

Now that the Auth Gateway and the Fronted will not be using Eureka to find their respective target apps, you need to provide the service name directly.
Rather than hard-coding the Kubernetes service name into the application config, use an environment variable to parameterize this setting. 
You will later set the value of this variable elsewhere, outside of the compiled application jar.

```editor:insert-lines-after-line
file: ~/color-app/authgateway/src/main/resources/application-istio.yml
line: 9
text: |
    colorApplicationUrl: ${COLOR_APPLICATION_URL}
    
```

```editor:insert-lines-after-line
file: ~/color-app/blueorgreenfrontend/src/main/resources/application-istio.yml
line: 12
text: |
    colorServiceUrl: ${COLOR_SERVICE_URL}
    
```