The next step is to package the applications as container images.

The apps cannot be deployed as plain .class or .jar files on Kubernetes.
Instead, each application, along with all of its dependencies - including all Spring and other supporting libraries, the JRE, and the OS filesystem itself - must be packaged into a bundle that adheres to a standard format (Docker or OCI, which stands for Open Container Initiative).
The container image is, hence, a standardized, complete, self-contained, immutable, executable bundle.

Container images provide operational simplicity because they alleviate the burden of having to prepare or maintain dependencies on the target runtime environment.
They make applications easily portable across any runtime that supports Docker or OCI images, and they enable any configuration, such as environment variables, that should be constant across environments to be packaged into the application, hence providing opportunities to better secure the application.

There are several ways to build container images.
In this exercise, you will use Cloud Native Buildpacks to generate an OCI image for each app.

Cloud Native Buildpacks (_CNB_, or _buildpacks_, for short) provides a standalone, standardized way to build OCI images.
The images can then be published to any OCI-compliant container registry (e.g. Docker Hub, Harbor, etc...) and run on any OCI-compliant runtime platform (e.g. Kubernetes).

Spring Boot's maven plugin has built-in support for CNB through the `build-image` goal.

Build an image for each of the four Color Application apps.
> Note: To speed up the image builds, you can execute the following two action blocks concurrently.
> The action blocks will run in different terminal windows.
```execute-1
cd blueorgreenservice && ./mvnw spring-boot:build-image -D skipTests && cd ..
cd blueorgreenfrontend && ./mvnw spring-boot:build-image -D skipTests && cd ..
```
```execute-2
cd blueorgreengateway && ./mvnw spring-boot:build-image -D skipTests && cd ..
cd authgateway && ./mvnw spring-boot:build-image -D skipTests && cd ..
```

When the above commands have completed, list the images in your local Docker daemon.
```execute-1
docker images
```

Your output will look like this.
```
[~/color-app]$  docker images
REPOSITORY                 TAG              IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
paketobuildpacks/run       base-cnb         ec1ea152d2be   2 weeks ago    92.1MB
paketobuildpacks/builder   base             de6226937194   41 years ago   663MB
blueorgreen                0.0.1-SNAPSHOT   356e122ba24b   41 years ago   286MB
blueorgreenfrontend        0.0.1-SNAPSHOT   a566344355a2   41 years ago   317MB
blueorgreengateway         0.0.1-SNAPSHOT   de729135b96b   41 years ago   320MB
authgateway                0.0.1-SNAPSHOT   3c80da733204   41 years ago   321MB
```

