You can open the `authgateway` and test out the premium and non-premium use cases.

Premium username: `premium`
Premium password: `pw`

Non-premium username: `user`
Non-premium password: `pw`

Use the following action button to open the `authgateway`.

```dashboard:open-url
url: http://blueorgreenauthgateway-{{ session_namespace }}.{{ ingress_domain }}
```

You can use the following action button to log out.

```dashboard:open-url
url: http://blueorgreenauthgateway-{{ session_namespace }}.{{ ingress_domain }}/logout
```

If you refresh the app in your browser you will likely notice little to none load balancing occuring, in other words you will
likely see the same color returned everytime you refresh.

Load balancing is very "sticky" with Kubernetes services however it will load balance requests if you make a lot of requests.
The easiest way to show this is to run some scripts in a POD running on Kubernetes. 

Execute the following command to run a POD that will open a `bash` terminal allowing you to run some commands inside a POD.

```execute-2
kubectl run --rm utils -it --image yenigul/dockernettools bash
```

Once you see a `bash` prompt run the following command to make several hundred requests to the `blueorgreengateway` and observe the 
colors returned.

 ```execute-2
 x=1; while [ $x -le 500 ]; do curl http://blueorgreengateway/blueorgreen; (( x++ )); done
 ```
As this runs you should see the color returned change every so often.

You can now exit the running POD by executing the following command.


 ```execute-2
 exit
 ```

In the local deployment, all apps connect to Config Server at `localhost:8888` and to Eureka Server at `localhost:8761`.
In addition, all apps register their direct address (IP:port) in Eureka, so that the gateways can communicate with them.

This will not work on Kubernetes.
Instead, all inter-app communication must go through the service resources.
This means that each app must connect to Config Server and EurekaServer through the `configserver` and `eurekaserver` services, respectively, and that each app must register itself in Eureka using its service name (e.g. the blue app must register itself using `blue`).
